Evading Protected View
This Microsoft Word document is
highly effective when served locally,
but when served from the Internet, say
through an email or a download link,
we must bypass another layer of
protection known as Protected View.
Essentially a sandbox feature
for Microsoft Office,
this protection disables all editing and
modifications in the document
and blocks the execution of
macros or embedded objects.
To simulate this, we will copy the
Microsoft Word document containing our
embedded batch file to our Kali machine
and host it from the Apache server.
We will do this with netcat and
listen for the file in our Kali terminal
to transfer the file to
our web root directory.
Next, we will download the file to
our Windows client with netcat,
and open it.
At this point, Protected View is engaged,
and we can not execute the batch file.
While the victim may click Enable Editing
and exit Protected View, this is unlikely.
Ideally, we would prefer to bypass
Protected View altogether,
and one straightforward way to do
this is to use another Office application.
Like Microsoft Word, Microsoft Publisher
allows embedded objects
and ultimately code execution in exactly
the same manner as Word and Excel,
but will not enable Protected View
for Internet-delivered docuements.
We could use the tactics we previously
applied to Word to bypass
these restrictions, but the
downside is that Publisher is
less frequently installed
than Word or Excel.
Still, if your fingerprinting detects
an installation of Publisher,
this may be a viable and better vector.